I hope you want to play in your sleep in your day.
Actually, I was thinking about it.
Come on, Papa. Look how beautiful it is outside.
Okay.
I found this picture while cleaning the attic.
I didn't know you played the violin.
Okay. Sergey is getting late. It's time to put the violin down.
A little longer. Please. My teacher says I'm really good.
It's true. You're playing better than I do now.
A man from a music conservatory, a chemistry class,
and my teacher told me to play for him.
Oh, and how did that go?
Well, first I was nervous. After I was done,
he asked me if I can attend a program for young gifted musicians.
Hmm. And what did you tell him?
I told him I'd ask you for it. So can I please?
I don't think it's a good idea.
But why? It's just playing the violin.
You and I played together was a difference.
The difference is we play violin for our enjoyment.
It's different with the world.
The pressure to be very best is so strong.
And the spirit of competition,
it can become so great that it will consume you.
I can handle it.
Sergey, conservatory exists to convince young people
to make music their life, their career.
You will be surrounded by people who don't love Jehovah.
Can you handle that?
I don't know, but I really love it.
And I'm not good at anything else, but I'm good at this.
Can I just try for a little bit?
I think it will make only harder for you.
And Sergey, you don't have to give up playing.
We're still killing joy, playing beautiful music together,
like we always do.
It's not a conservatory.
That's right.
We must show Jehovah that we love him first.
I just don't understand.
One day you will understand.
For now, I really appreciate you being obedient.
Really appreciate you being obedient.
Good answer, Alexey.
Natalia and I have really enjoyed our study, Sergey.
But we miss your father tonight.
We really hope his feeling better soon.
Who is it?
Alexey, that's me, Daniil.
Let me in.
Sorry, I'm late.
It's okay, Daniil.
We're glad you can join us.
You're sure you weren't followed?
Yes, I'm sure.
I passed a group of police on the way, but they did not see me.
They were busy arresting a man.
It's getting more and more dangerous.
I'm so scared.
It's true.
These are dangerous times.
What helps me is to think of the ones like Jeremiah and the Apostle Paul.
They were ordinary people, just like us.
But you have granted them the power beyond what is normal,
so that they were able to endure.
When we meditate on examples like these, it gives us courage.
Father?
Father!
I gave you some Alexander.
We have been looking for you.
Have you done with him?
I will ask the questions.
Where is it?
Let him go.
Please.
He's sick.
I will ask again.
Where is it?
Where is what?
The seditious literature.
Your religion produces.
We know your Jehovah's Witnesses.
Why are you doing this?
We've done nothing.
You know the law, and yet you chose to disobey it.
You believe this is nothing, Sergey?
Now, tell us where to find your literature.
Perhaps then.
I will extend some consideration.
I won't find anything here.
We'll see.
You play?
Play something.
No, no, no, no, no.
Not that.
Play the anthem for us.
No.
I will not.
We're loyal to our Jehovah.
Why do you play for the wrong side?
When you know, there is only one outcome.
Where I am convinced that neither death nor life nor angels
nor governments will be able to separate us from God's love convinced.
Now, brothers and sisters, come with me.
We have news about your father.
How is he?
He's dying, Sergey.
Can I see him?
You can do even more than that.
You can take him home.
We can leave?
Yes.
You can leave and never have to come back.
Just sign this.
What is it?
I read it.
Read it.
No.
This opportunity will not come again.
I assure you.
Renounce your religion and you both can leave.
No.
One has to know.
My God will know.
Your God.
Where is your God, Sergey?
Can he rescue you from this place?
Can he give you back your life?
Your father?
You've been here for five months.
Would you prefer to make it five more years?
Look at me, if not for yourself.
Do it for your father.
You love him, right?
Then prove you love for him.
I love my father very much.
We must show you who we love him first.
But I love you first.
And whatever happens, I will serve him.
Okay.
You want to serve him?
Serve him.
Enjoy your five years.
Guard, take him.
Who is Johor?
Thank you so much for that talk that was wonderful.
Thank you.
Sergey.
Look, see.
Natalia.
Yes, it's fast.
I haven't seen you both since...
I know. It's been seventeen years.
We pray for you least every night, Sergey.
Thank you so much.
When they announce your name as our substitute circuit,
we see I couldn't believe it.
Oh, I still can't believe it.
I wanted to meet my wife.
This is Anya.
Nice to meet you.
Your husband studied with us.
It's wonderful to meet up again after all these years.
Would you both come to my home for dinner tonight?
It would mean so much to us.
Sounds wonderful.
We would be happy to come.
Thank you.
All right.
That was excellent.
Like your talks, Sergey.
Yes, it's rare for someone so young to teach us you do.
No, I don't.
Feather is right.
You are wise beyond your years.
Do you think your time in prison prepared you?
I definitely had a lot of time to meditate, so...
I guess it might have matured me a little.
You were there nearly twice as long as most of us.
We can only imagine how difficult those years were for you.
Is it true you never saw your father again?
It's true.
You must be very strong to withstand that kind of pressure.
Yeah, I suppose so.
I wish you could be our real circuit overseer.
We heard good things about brother Elin.
Many good things. We hope to meet him soon.
He is okay.
But he is not the man of the people.
You have suffered, like us.
You understand us?
We need someone like you.
Brothers, I appreciate the praise, but I really don't deserve it.
Yes, you do.
No.
The praise should go to Jehovah.
It is only because of his power that any of us can serve him the way we do.
That's true.
It's only because of Jehovah's spirit.
He deserves the praise.
And remember,
Jehovah is the one who chooses those who serve in the congregations.
Each of us has strengths that others don't have,
but Jehovah sees them all.
And he knows how to use them to advance his will.
So we must trust Jehovah and be determined to appreciate the ones he has chosen to use.
Sergei, what is it?
Victor wants to see you.
Sergei, yes, Victor.
You are doing because I need your help.
Dimitri is sick and I have no one else to cover for him.
Which Dimitri?
He works at our sister plan.
And I need you to start working there beginning tomorrow.
Where is it at the plan?
About an hour away.
An hour away?
Look, Victor.
With all due respect, I really appreciate this job.
Really.
But I've been covering for several people in the last few months.
And I already feel very exhausted.
Do you think you could find somebody else?
Well, but I have family now and other responsibilities.
Other responsibilities.
My congregation.
Ah.
Your religious beliefs again.
Well, I give you time for your meetings, don't I?
Yes.
Remember, I do this not because I value your religion,
but because I value your work.
You're welcome and look for another job.
But I doubt you're going to find an employer
as understanding as I am concerning your religious beliefs.
Well, as I said, Victor, I really appreciate this job
and all the extra consideration has been shown to me.
I guess I'll just cover for Dimitri.
Have a good day.
We'll be ready for a family study when you get home.
Just as it is written,
for your sake, we're being put to death all day long.
We have an accountidest ship for slaughtering.
On the contrary, in all these things,
we are coming off completely victorious
for the one who loved us.
We can't be victorious.
So, how are my girls doing?
Papa, we've been practicing for the study tonight.
I'm going to be married and Mama's going to be married.
I guess that makes me Jesus.
Yeah, I hope you're ready for tonight.
Yes, I'm ready.
I'm ready, sweetheart.
I wouldn't miss it for anything.
All right.
Irina, I'd like you to meet a very dear friend of ours, Natalia.
Hello.
I knew your father when he was close to your age.
He helped me learn the truth.
He did.
He was a good teacher too.
Very patient.
Where is Alexei because we were hoping to see him too?
He's not here.
Maybe we could stop by and see him tomorrow if I will leave.
Yeah.
You can't.
Why not?
What's wrong, Natalia?
Is he sick?
What is it?
What does it tell us?
A few months ago, Alexei left the truth.
Oh, no.
He's so sorry, Natalia.
A word made began feeding his mind with doubts about the organization.
Pretty soon, those doubts turn into belief.
And he left.
Everyone's been so supportive in the congregation.
And Jehovah, he has never left me.
Yeah.
I remember your words about courage all those years ago.
I just didn't want to tell you because I knew how much I would hurt you.
I just can't believe it.
He's been like a second father to me.
Now it feels like it was two.
You know?
He may still come back.
It's been my earnest wish that he does.
Mine too.
I love you so much.
People might leave.
But Jehovah never will.
He will never abandon his loyal ones.
For I'm convinced.
Remember?
Yeah.
I found this picture while cleaning the attic.
Didn't know you played the violin.
I lost interest in it, I guess.
Sergey, Irina, good afternoon.
Is it?
I have received your test results.
I wish I had better news.
It's okay, go ahead.
We have to operate.
All right.
But remember, no blood.
I will do my best.
But your best option is a broad transfusion.
Without it, your chances are much lower.
They understand what I'm trying to say.
Yeah, I understand.
And thank you, Doctor, for doing your best.
Leaving this choice to me.
My stand is the same.
Very well.
We'll schedule the surgery for the end of this week.
And we have to run a few more tests this afternoon.
But I will give you a few minutes first.
Thank you.
I love you, Barbara.
I know you'll make it through.
Mama always said he was strong.
I love you too, sweetheart.
Should something happen,
keep your hope anchored on that wonderful day.
The day when your mom and I
will be reunited with you in the new world.
Promise me?
I promise.
I'll see you out.
We must show you a way that we love him first.
For I'm convinced that neither death, alive,
nor angels, nor governments,
nor things now hear or things to come,
nor powers, nor height, nor depth,
nor any other creation,
will be able to separate us from God's love.
That is in Christ Jesus, our Lord.
For I'm convinced.